DOCSP-13320 revisions (#675)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/dotnet/objects.txt

schema for their object type and validates objects whenever they're
created, modified, or deleted.

.. _dotnet-property-types:

Property Types
~~~~~~~~~~~

{+client-database+} supports the following property data types and their nullable counterparts:

- ``bool``
- ``byte``
- ``short``
- ``int``
- ``long``
- ``float``
- ``double``
- ``decimal``
- ``char``
- ``string``
- ``byte[]``
- ``DateTimeOffset``
- ``Decimal128`` from ``MongoDB.Bson``
- ``ObjectId`` from ``MongoDB.Bson``
- A ``RealmObject`` subclass 
- An ``EmbeddedObject`` subclass (see :ref:`Embedded Objects <dotnet-property-embedded>`)
- ``IList<T>`` where T is any of the previous data types (see :ref:`Lists <dotnet-property-lists>`)

The ``byte``, ``char``, ``short``, ``int``, and ``long`` types  are all stored as 64 bit integer values
within {+client-database+}. 

If you choose to provide custom constructors, you must declare a public constructor with no arguments.

.. _dotnet-property-lists:

Lists
~~~~~

Realm objects can contain lists of all supported data types. 

> You can model these collections with the standard .NET interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can model these collections by defining a getter-only property of type
```

`IList<T> <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.collections.generic.ilist-1?view=net-5.0>`__,
where ``T`` can be any data type (excluding lists).

> These lists can contain null values. 
> If null values should not be allowed, do not use nullable types
> in the list declaration (i.e., use ``IList<double>`` instead of ``IList<double?>``).

Reviewer: Maybe expand a little on this like:

```suggestion
Lists of objects cannot contain null values - i.e. deleting an object from the database
will also remove it from any lists where it existed. Lists of primitive types can contain null
values. If null values should not be allowed, do not use nullable types
in the list declaration (i.e., use ``IList<double>`` instead of ``IList<double?>``) or
add the ``[Required]`` attribute if the list contains reference types, such as ``string``
or ``byte[]``.
```

Also, might want to link to the required/optional properties section from the `[Required]` attribute.

   :ref:`Embedded Objects <dotnet-embedded-objects>`

.. _dotnet-attributes:

Attributes
----------

.. _dotnet-primary-key:

Primary Key
~~~~~~~~~~~

A **primary key** is a property that uniquely identifies an object. You can
create a primary key with any of the following types (or their nullable counterparts):

- ``string``
- ``ObjectId``

> - ``int``
> - ``long``
> - ``short``
> - ``byte``
> - ``char``

Reviewer: [nit] let's order these and move `char` closer to `string`:

```suggestion
- ``byte``
- ``short``
- ``int``
- ``long``
```

.. note::
   
   Once you assign a property as a primary key, you cannot change it.
   
   The following example demonstrates how to designate a primary key in an object schema:
   
   .. literalinclude:: /examples/Schemas/PrimaryKey.cs
      :language: csharp

.. _dotnet-required-optional-property:

Required and Optional Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In C#, value types are implicitly non-nullable, but can be made optional by appending 

> `?  <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/builtin-types/nullable-value-types>`.

Reviewer: This doesn't render as a proper link:

<img width="743" alt="Screen Shot 2021-01-08 at 10 37 36" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2315687/103999730-8bacb900-519d-11eb-8d3a-801e71ae8c61.png">

.. note::
   
   Once you assign a property as a primary key, you cannot change it.
   
   The following example demonstrates how to designate a primary key in an object schema:
   
   .. literalinclude:: /examples/Schemas/PrimaryKey.cs
      :language: csharp

.. _dotnet-required-optional-property:

Required and Optional Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If a property is normally nullable, you can make it required to disallow ``null`` values
> using the ``[Required]`` attribute. In .NET, properties are nullable only if marked with 
> `?  <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/builtin-types/nullable-value-types>`__ except
> for ``string`` and ``byte[]``.

Reviewer: Let's reword this and remove the second paragraph which is a bit repetitive:

```suggestion
In C#, value types are implicitly non-nullable, but can be made optional by appending 
`?  <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/builtin-types/nullable-value-types>`.
Reference types, such as ``string`` and ``byte[]``, are implicitly nullable and can be
made required by annotating them with the ``[Required]`` attribute. Properties of types
that inherit from ``RealmObject`` or ``EmbeddedObject`` are special and can always be
null. Applying ``[Required]`` on such a property will result in a compilation error.
```

Indexes are special data structures that store a small portion of a
{+realm+}'s data in an easy to traverse form. The index stores the value
of a specific property ordered by the value of the property. The ordering of
the index entries supports efficient equality matches and range-based
query operations.

Adding an index to a property makes write operations slightly slower, but makes
certain queries faster. Indexes require space in your {+realm+} file, so
adding an index to a property will increase disk space consumed by your
{+realm+} file.

You can index properties with the following types:

> - ``string``

Reviewer: Can't add it as a suggestion, but let's order these too :)

```
- ``bool``
- ``byte``
- ``short``
- ``int``
- ``long``
- ``DateTimeOffset``
- ``char``
- ``string``
- ``ObjectId``
```

> - To change a class name in .NET without forcing a migration.

Reviewer: I can't comment on the correct line, but on 420, where it says `same simple name in different packages`, it should say `same simple name in different namespaces`.
